---
layout: post
title: Built-in Data types
date: 2021-07-30 14:11
category: SDV602
author: Mark Christison
image: assets\images\python-book.jpg
tags: [SDV602]
featured: false
hidden: true
---

The exercises in class where very difficult and I couldn't achieve them. To me it seemed like we needed to engineer the data inside all the cells before we worked with modifying the outputs, since some of the dictionary keys and values had spaces or " " at the beginning of them. I did find a way to complete the first exercise, only if there was no space in the column header.

Given this I don't think that I have an understanding that is expected now of python, even though I've only been learning about python for a week.

To get around this short coming in my understanding of python, I have started a course on LinkedIn learning to learn the basics of python to keep up with Todd. It seems that we are already expected to know a quite a bit of python already, even though this language should be new to everyone in the class (SDV602 SECOND LANGUAGE as it says in the course outline). 

The following are some notes that I have taken from that course:

## Python LinkedIn Learning Course Notes

Python files can be run from the command line if they begin with a #! or shebang. This shebang is followed by a route that calls the python interpreter. 

``` python
#!/usr/bin/env python3
```

In versions of python since 3.6, strings can be formatted using syntax as follows

``` python
x = 42
print(f"Hello, World. {x}")
```

Python doesn't have curly brackets/braces around blocks of code, instead it uses indention. However different to other languages, variables defined in a block are scoped to a function object or module outside of the block.

``` python
x = 42
y = 73

if x < y:
    z = 100
    
print('z is {z}')  # z is 100
```

Python does not have a switch/case statement, instead it uses an if/else chain. Else if statements are written as "elif".

``` python
x = 42
y = 73

if x < y:
    print('{x} is less than {y}')
elif x == y:
    print('{x} is equal to {y}')
else:
    print('{y} is less than {x}')
```

---

I will continue my own study outside of the course at NMIT, using LinkedIn learning, YouTube, and reading the documentation as well as using internet searches to find solutions to problems in python or even reading the official documentation (even though this is somehow considered "cheating").
