---
layout: post
title: "Social Engineering Reconnaissance"
date: 2020-07-20 12:57
author: Mark Christison
image: assets\images\socialE.jpg
category: [SEC602]
featured: true
hidden: false
---

While most systems have some form of safe guard or protection mechanism that will work well most of the time, all systems have the same fundamentally weakness to an attack, the human element.

Nothing is more vulnerable to attack than people that interact with the systems that a Threat Actor would want to attack. They need to sleep, they can be bribed or threatened, and generally are tired and lazy. Humans are the weakest part of any system to an attack. The best way to attack a target is to first do reconnaissance on that target.
The rise of social media has been touted as a great interconnecting and debasing of social structure. It has allowed us to connect to one another and share pictures and ideas across with the world with family and friends. All the great price of nothing, or so it would seem. When people interact with websites and they do not charge us anything for it, its likely the product that the business is sell is our data.

And why wouldn't they? We so easily give it up. We will go on snapstagram and post images of our lives every day. People tag other people and places as well as dates and times, all the while thinking how wonderful it is to be able to share these great photos and moments with our family and friends. All too often people forget that they are also sharing that with a wider audience that they might have intended. An example of this Justine Sacco who in 2013 tweeted "Going to Africa. Hope I don't get AIDS. Just kidding. I'm white!" before she got on a flight to Africa. By the time she had landed in Africa, she had become internationally infamous, lost her job and had her life completely destroyed.
While social media can have that outward appearance of danger, there is a more subtle monster lurking. A would be threat actor can gather information about a target individual enough that they could formulate a plan of attack on either them or someone close to them.

## Summarise the key information gathered from MyBook

The factitious mybook site from the lab was no different than any of the other snapstagrams of facefriendfinderbookgroup sites. The individual had a range of information that could be easily accessible such as

- Name
- Age
- Job title and place of work
- Personal interests
- Pets (names for passwords)
- Family and close friends
- Co-workers
- Phone number
- Day to day activities
- Personal current details (baby due, car accident)
- Current photographs (hair style, clothing)

## Organization Attack's

To attack an organization, the only very obvious one that jumps out at me would be the fact that he codes for google. However, in considering what might be a better target, it is possible that Phillip might have code for additional organizations as well that might be less protected than what google is. It is possible that Phillip has a github account or other form of version control on his computer. Knowing that he has had a car accident only recently, and that he was able to log into some of accounts (computer, mybook account) without using 2 factor authentication, leads me to believe that he might not have a high level of general security.

The proposed attack might consist of several parts to first build authority and then gain access to his system. First call Phillip and present as an insurance company looking to gather some more information about the crash. If he is forth coming, great record as much detail as possible but more over, try to build a sense of professionalism. Get his email and send him an email with additional paperwork for him to review (all fake but legitimate looking). In that email, include malicious links or files to gain remote access to his machine.

## Prevention methods could be used to mitigate the risk of an attack

The proposed attack is only one of many ideas that could be enacted. To defend against the unknow is hard if not impossible. However using basic technology hygiene is about the only possible step to mitigate some of the potential damage that could occur.

- Use 2 factor authentication as much as possible
- Limit/Eliminate/Reduce the amount of information that is willing given away.
- White list only those who you want to see your social media posts
- Check visibility settings often as websites may change them frequently
- Assume that anything you put on the internet will be public, if not now but when in the future whatever level of encryption you have used to encrypt what you are saying has been decrypted.
- Eliminate usage of social media as much as possible

We are at a point in our development as humans where we have come to accept a loss of a large proportion of our innate rights. It is up to the individual to take back ownership of their own data and digital lives else have it stripped from us with no hope of getting it back.
