---
layout: post
title: "SEC602: Managing Certificates"
date: 2020-08-29 12:57
author: Mark Christison
image: assets\images\SSL-Secure-Connection.png
tags: [SEC602]
featured: true
hidden: true
---

## AD Certificate Services

Active Directory Certificate Services (AD CS) is a "Server Role that allows you to build a public key infrastructure (PKI) and provide public key cryptography, digital certificates, and digital signature capabilities for your organization" (Microsoft, n.d.).

AD CS provides tools for building, issuing, and managing digitial certificates by using public key infasturcture. A range of applications that rely on AD CS inlcude:

- VPN's
- IPsec
- Secure Socket Layer/Transport Layer Security (SSL/TLS)

## AD CA Web Enrollment

AD CA Web Enrollment is an optional role service that can be installed through server manager when the AD CA role is installed. "CA Web enrollment allows users to connect to a CA by means of a Web browser in order to request certificates and retrieve certificate revocation lists (CRLs)." (Microsoft, n.d.)

## Key Archival and Key Recovery Agent

Key archival is a capability of the AD CA role. Key archival can be done manually or automatically, depending on the needs of the organization operating the domain.

The process for key archival and recovery simplified is:

1. A user submits a certificate request to an enterprise CA with a copy of the private key included in the certificate request. The CA encrypts and archives the certificate's private key in the CA database and issues the certificate to the user.
2. The certificate is used to encrypt data files; for example, by using EFS.
3. Because the certificate's private key is required to decrypt files that have been encrypted with the certificate, corruption of the key or loss of access to the key results in loss of the decrypted data. Under these circumstances a Certificate Manager can retrieve the archived private key from the CA database and, with assistance from a key recovery agent, can decrypt the private key to perform data recovery procedures or securely provide the key to the user.
4. The recovered private key can be imported to a user's local keys store to restore access to the key and encrypted files.
   (Papitsis, 2012)

References

Microsoft. (n.d.). Active Directory Certificate Services Overview. Docs.Microsoft.Com. Retrieved August 29, 2020, from https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/previous-versions/windows/it-pro/windows-server-2012-R2-and-2012/hh831740(v=ws.11)

Papitsis, D. (2012, February 17). Active Directory Certificate Services PKI - Key Archival and Management - TechNet Articles - United States (English) - TechNet Wiki. Social.Technet.Microsoft.Com. https://social.technet.microsoft.com/wiki/contents/articles/7573.active-directory-certificate-services-pki-key-archival-and-management.aspx-and-2012/hh831740(v=ws.11)

‌
