---
layout: post
title: "A new brief"
date: 2020-08-07 15:37
category:
author: Mark Christison
image: assets\images\map.png
category: [SDV602]
featured: true
hidden: false
---

After consultation with my tutor, I am now no longer making a game with unity. To reflect these changes the following is now my new project brief. I will be working with [Xamarin](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/apps/xamarin).

The software to be designed will be like that of the popular website [Geocaching](https://www.geocaching.com). A user would take a photo of a location, that location would be geo tagged with its location. Other users would be able to find that location later.

Complexity could be added later by allowing users to make a set of waypoints. For users to follow the path they would need to fine the location and scan it with their camera on their phone. The photo would confirm that users have been at a location.

Users could see “start points” on a map and start a “path” of “waypoints” that other users create. The user would be required to take a photo of each way point. The idea here is that this could be expanded into an app that would allow people to see points of interest along a walkway for example, such as a famous landmark. Some additional information could be provided to the user at this point such as a blub about the landmark/location. Additionally, users could leave comments at each way point or create their own branch of landmarks off of the main “path” that was originally developed.

Another feature could be a “capture the flag” idea, whereby a user would take a picture of a location like a piece of public art. From there, they would take a picture of another location but that would not have a geo location. The idea being that a second user would have to find the second location, take a photo of it to confirm that they have been there, and then move to another location and take a photo of it. The system would log the geo location of the new location and show it to all the other users to attempt to find.
