---
layout: post
title: "SEC602: Implementing NAT"
date: 2020-09-19 13:57
author: Mark Christison
image: assets\images\nat.jpg
tags: [SEC602]
featured: true
hidden: false
---

Investigate and discuss the use and function of the NAT Firewall in a security context.

Investigate and discuss at least two uses of OpenSSH on either Windows or Linux

## NAT Firewall

Network address transaltion firewall.
busy ceo
secrecty
browsing online
request to external servers
ever
3 different types of firewall

- Software
- Hardware
- Cloud-based

NAT short for Network address transation. It was created to solve the problem that is inherient with IPv4, a limit of 4.3 billion public IP addresses. The reason that this has become a problem is that of the 5 billion people that are on the planet, most have at least 1 device that requires an IP address to connect to the internet.

NAT works by creating a lookup table inside of a router. The router stores information in a lookup table for resolving the addresss of the packets that are sent through it.

Each packet has a header. In that header it contains meta information about the packet, including who the packet is being sent from and to. The router uses its lookup tables (both forward and reverse) to find out where the packet should be sent to.

Below is an exmaple of NAT. Computer A is sends a packet to computer B. Computer A is inside a NAT with an IP of 192.168.2.23 and it thinks that it knows to send a packet to 192.31.7.130. When The packet passes the router, the router looks into the forwarding lookup table to find the IP of the packet if a domain name is being passed, or uses the IP address direclty and sends that packet on to the next node in the network that is closest to the destination IP. It also logs the request for the destiation IP and source. When the packet leaves the router, its source IP is masqueraded under the public IP of the router 202.10.5.23.

When computer B sends a packet to computer A the header of the packet contians the source IP as computer B's address. This might also be masquaraded by a router, but it does not concern the network. When the NAT router recieves the packet, it checks the header file for the source and destination IP, checks if the destination IP is in its reverse lookup table, if it then it sends the packet on to the destionation IP 192.168.2.23.

If a packet comes in from an external IP address that is not in a lookup table, then the firewall will stop the packet from being sent on. This can be fine tuned by blocking or allowing ports for example I might allow a the IP public address of a remote adminstrator to access any computer on the nat using SSH on port 22.

## OpenSSH

[OpenSSH](https://www.openssh.com/) is an open source project of the OpenBSD foundation. It's intention is to allow the SSH protocol to work will all operating systems. It uses the LibreSSL library for its cryptographic routines such as AES-GCM. The project is licenced under OpenBSD-style licence.

OpenSSH uses the SSH 2 protocol which was made open source to avoid patent issues with the RSA algorithm of the older SSH 1 protocol.

### OpenSSH using WSL

Using a root account OpenSSH can be installed from a terminal using

```bash
$ apt -y install openssh-client

```

### OpenSSH using PowerShell
