---
layout: post
title: "SEC602 Lab 2: Application Data - Establish Host Security"
date: 2020-07-28 20:56
author: Mark Christison
image: assets\images\greenText.jpg
tags: [SEC602]
featured: true
hidden: true

---

There are many threats that an individual user must pay attention to when using the internet. To many, and the amount of them is growing day by day. In the news recently there has been discussion about the recent ["Meow"](https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2020/07/more-than-1000-databases-have-been-nuked-by-mystery-meow-attack/) attack on open MongoDB databases, TicTok being forcibly removed from phones(interestingly while other social media can remain), and Twitter being hacked and [DM's being exposed](https://www.vice.com/en_us/article/jgxdwy/twitter-encrypted-direct-messages-dms-ron-wyden?utm_source=reddit.com).

All of this should leave anyone with anything to protect cautious of access control to their devices. For the majority of users running Windows 10, this is managed through Microsoft Defender.

## Microsoft Defender

Also called Windows Defender and Windows Defender Antivirus is the inbuilt antivirus program that comes preinstalled as part of windows 10 (in modern releases). Microsoft Defenders main features include

- Real-time protection
- Browser integration (only with Internet explorer and Microsoft Edge)
- Application guard

Which is all really a bit of faf, because really all Microsoft want to do is to funnel you into their universe of products with an account. All these features only work on the base operating system and the browsers that windows 10 comes preinstalled with (which in my opinion are terrible)

Sure, keep the preinstalled antivirus. That is about the only useful thing that it will be useful for. Windows regularly updates the virus signatures and releases them as needed or on patch Tuesday. However, for web browsing first off I choose a better browser

### Mozilla Firefox

Firefox is a modern fast, reliable open source browser. With a few add-ons it becomes an amazing web browsing tool. Those extension's include

- [uBlock Origin](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/ublock-origin/)
- [HTTPS everywhere](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/ublock-origin/)
- [Privacy Badger](https://privacybadger.org/)

#### uBlock Origin

uBlock Origin is a modern pop up and script blocker. Its settings can be changed to allow or disallow any feature on any website that you visit either permanently or temporarily.

I often use the "element selector" to block specific elements on websites that I find visually unappealing, however it will also automatically block all content that matches a dictionary that can be populated with either user built rules or imported rule sets.

The extension can be "turned off" by clicking the power button in the extension or by adding a rule to the ruleset. This might need to happen for example on a website that uses popups for what ever reason.

#### HTTPS everywhere


#### Privacy Badger

"Privacy Badger is a browser add-on that stops advertisers and other third-party trackers from secretly tracking where you go and what pages you look at on the web. If an advertiser seems to be tracking you across multiple websites without your permission, Privacy Badger automatically blocks that advertiser from loading any more content in your browser. To the advertiser, it’s like you suddenly disappeared.  Privacy Badger automatically learns to block invisible trackers." (Privacy Badger 2020)

---
---
 

While these add-ons are useful by themselves or together, more recently mozilla has released a feature to their main browser called "containers". As per the mozilla documentation "Container tabs are like normal tabs except that the sites you visit will have access to a separate slice of the browser's storage. This means your site preferences, logged in sessions, and advertising tracking data won't carry over to the new container. Likewise, any browsing you do within the new container will not affect your logged in sessions, or tracking data of your other containers." (Multi-Account Containers)

This means that you can have facebook open in one tab that has its own cookies and temporary files which are kept seperate from a google tab where you are searching for hair products and baby food, seperate from another tab where you are doing your professional work. Each space has its own cookies that do not cross over into the other containers. This somewhat mimics the "sandboxing" effect that would be similar to running a VM and browsing in the VM.

This fixes and 

If a host computer still gets infected after applying these basic browsing tools, then it would be reccomeded to download and install [Microsoft Security Scanner](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/security/threat-protection/intelligence/safety-scanner-download). Once downloaded a scan can be run on the system and hopefully the malware can be removed and reverse the changes that occured.

Additional security can be set up by creating a microsoft account at the [Microsoft Account Security](https://account.microsoft.com/account/privacy?ref=privacy-windowssettings&ru=https%3A%2F%2Faccount.microsoft.com%2Fprivacy%3Fref%3Dprivacy-windowssettings&destrt=privacy-dashboard) page. 



1. Discuss when you may need to use the Windows Defender Exclusions feature from the lab.  What the security considerations or actions would you recommend or implement if you were asked to exclude a folder from Windows Defender.
2. Discuss a scenario when you may need to use the Microsoft Safety Scanner rather than Windows Defender.
3. Select a feature Internet Explorer Browser Security from the lab and discuss the vulnerability it is protecting, is this required just for Internet Explorer?