---
layout: post
title: "SEC602: Password Cracking Tools"
date: 2020-08-13 10:08
author: Mark Christison
image: assets\images\password.jpg
tags: [SEC602]
category: [SEC602]
featured: true
hidden: true
---

## Cain & Abel: Initianting a brute force attack

Cain & Abel is freeware composed of 2 applications: Cain and Abel.

### Cain

Cain is used for password extraction and recovery.

### Abel

Abel runs a Windows NT service with protects passwords that are transmitted over the local network.

It's other primary features are:

- Cracking encrypted Passwords
- Preforming dictionary attacks
- Preforming brute force attacks
- ARP spoofing
- Calculating Hashes
  - LM
  - NTLM
  - MD5
  - SHA-1
  - SHA-2

There are many tutorials online, here is a tutorail video similar to the work that we have done inside Practice Labs.

[Better than Practice Labs](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dVgqWclemmE)

Additionally, there are a bunch of videos on youtube that show the full functionality can be learnt about.

[Also better than Practice Labs](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ETF2R_ONTBU)

## Comparison of Password Attacks

Brute forcing is not the only way in which a threat agent can attack through. Other ways include:

- Traffic Interception
- Man-in-the-middle
- Key logging
- Socail Engineering (Pishing, Shoulder surfing, baiting)

So how does brute forcing comare to each of these.

There is no interception of traffic, rather everything is done client side so in comparison to those methods that require physical access to devices, it is far easier.

Key-logging requires getting either software or hardware into the targets computer. This is both difficult and
In comparison, simple shoulder surfing to get a password can be as if not more effective.
