---
layout: post
title: "WEB601: Making a simple todo app"
date: 2020-07-31 11:51
category:
author: Mark Christison
image: assets\images\todo.png
tags: [SDV602]
summary:
featured: true
---

During class we were instucted to follow [this](https://github.com/facebook/flux/tree/master/examples/flux-todomvc) tutorial on flux. However, it is not really suited for beginners and glosses over a lot of concepts without going into them in detail.

I didn't really get anything out of the tutorial as it didn't cover the ideas behind what was acutally going on. It was more of a trascription exercise in rewriting the code in the correct places in the correct files on my own directory.

As part of this exercise we used a simple command line http-server, although it was uncessary as using the "npm run watch" runs the webpack server locally from the directory. I understand that it was demonstrative of how we can serve websites from our machines, but it required opening an additional terminal and became a bit of a mess about where we were working and what termial I needed to enter comands in.

Overall, I didn't enjoy nor learn anything from this lesson.

During the semester break studied a small amount of react by taking a course where I built a todo app through linkedin learning [here](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/building-modern-projects-with-react).

For setting up the development environment for a react application, I have found following [this](https://jscomplete.com/learn/1rd-reactful) resource to be incredibly helpful. The page is intended to be kept current with the changes that happen to different frameworks as they occur.
