---
layout: post
title: "Lab 3: Network Vulnerabilities Part 1"
date: 2020-08-07 08:21
category:
author: Mark Christison
image: assets\images\wireshark.png
tags: [SEC602]
featured: true
hidden: true
---

## What information can you obtain by network foot printing using Nmap

Foot printing is part of the resonance process for gaining information about a target system or network. Foot printing can be either passive such as reviewing a company’s policies and procedures as well as active such as attempting to gain access to assets via social engineering.
Foot printing is normally the first step in trying to understand a target. The metaphor works well in the literal sense, following the steps that a system leaves on the environment. Once a target system is better understood then doing an attack is easier, and the type of attack can be chosen to better fit the vulnerability/s of the target.

Through foot printing the following information can be obtained:

- Domain Name
- IP addresses
- Employee Information
- Phone numbers
- Email addresses
- Open Ports on hosts
- Operating systems of devices

## How could an attacker use this information

With a range of knowledge of the target system, an attacker would be able to target the weakest points first. If the system was running an unpatched version of an operating system there might be an attack surface that could be targeted by an attacker. If the target system has open ports that would normally be closed, an attacker could find out the service that runs on that port and find a weakness
With any information that is given away, the attacker has more opportunities. They will know the parts of the system and how they likely integrate and therefore be able to spot weaknesses easier.

## How can packet sniffing be used to detect potential threats on a network

Packet sniffers or protocol analysers can be used by an attacker or to analyse network problems. They intercept and log traffic passing over a network. Once the packet has been capturing, protocol analysers makes the data easy for humans to read.

If a security analyst was able to detect packets being sent that had critical information such as usernames and passwords then it is likely that an attacker could also find this information as well.

Packet sniffers are able to troubleshoot network problems. If an error occurs in a part of the network, it can be difficult to determine exactly where the problem has occurred. However, by inspecting the individual packets, it is easier to assess the likely cause of the network issue.

A packet sniffer can also be used to optimize networks. As part of scheduled maintenance or otherwise network improvements, a packet sniffer can be used as an analysis tool in understanding and mapping the network better.

## Analyse the packet capture and assess what is happening

The recording that was listed as part of the questions for this blog was able to be opened in Wireshark. However, I’m not quite sure what I am supposed to do with it now that it is open. I can see that there is a large amount of ARP requests and a response from 192.168.70.1 with a mac address of 0a:00:27:00:00:04.

I assume that maybe be we are to think about Man in the middle attacks but without more information about the network this would be impossible.

I guess something to do with ARP spoofing was what we should think about. Unfortunately, I know nothing about this other than the words “ARP spoofing”. So the answer the question “Analyse the packet capture and assess what is happening” is you did an ARP scan and found 1 host on the network.

Further reading: [Packet analysis for network forensics: A comprehensive survey](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1742287619302002?via%3Dihub)