---
layout: post
title: "SEC602: Implementing a Network Policy Server"
date: 2020-07-20 12:57
author: Mark Christison
image: assets\images\server.jpeg
tags: [SEC602]
category: [SEC602]
featured: true
hidden: true
---

Network Policy Server (NPS) is an optional role that can be installed onto Windows Server Machines. It provides Authentication, Authorization and Accounting (AAA) . When paired with Active Directory (AD) on a Windows Server, as it provides users a single sign-on solution to access many resources. In the case of NMIT, my credentials for the NMIT domain gives me access to Moodle, NMIT's website and office365 as well as other services that are linked to my username.

The NPS role can be configured with Network Access Protection (NAP) which can be configured to enforce Network policies such as security settings and updates, 802.1X wired/wireless access which uses certificate based authentication over password based authentication, and central policy management through a Remote Access Dial-In Service (RADIUS) which provides a centralization for AAA management for all users.

The NPS role can be installed as with other roles and features from Server Manager in windows server. The role is highly configurable and logging client requests to a Microsoft SQL server database (local or cloud), can be added as a feature of the role.

The authentication methods used previously in Windows Servers has been Microsoft Challenge-Handshake Authentication Protocol (MS-CHAP), and although it is used in the lab exercise, there are several weaknesses that have been [identified](https://msrc-blog.microsoft.com/2012/08/20/weaknesses-in-ms-chapv2-authentication/) which make the protocol vulnerable to brute force attacks. As such, Microsoft now supports Protected Extensible Authentication Protocol (PEAP) on a encrypted TLS tunnel for client/server authentication.

References
Microsoft. (2018, June 20). Network Policy Server (NPS). Microsoft.Com. https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/networking/technologies/nps/nps-top
