---
layout: post
title: "Introduciton to Digital Forensics"
date: 2020-10-12 10:32
author: Mark Christison
image: assets\images\digitalForensics.jpg
category: [SEC602]
featured: true
hidden: true
---

In todays digital age there are an increasing number of device such as smart phones, laptops and computers, and the number and types of these devices are only getting larger day to day. These devices are not only used for legitimate personal and business activities, but also are increasingly used for criminal activities as the amount and type of information stored on device increases. As much as individuals and companies can take precautionary measures to defend themselves from attack, there will inevitably be such an attack that will take place.

To investigate these attacks and to gather evidence if it is needed for a court case or otherwise requires a framework for investigators to follow to property gather evidence, such as with any other crime in the physical world. There have been several proposed frameworks for digital forensics. Prior to the 1980's, digital forensics simply didn't exists as computers themselves were bulky, owned mostly by corporations and research institutes, and government agencies. Their function was primarily data processing. They required a staff of several people to operate and were expensive to run.

When IBM made their first PC it created a wave of computer hobbyists. All of a sudden, computer where in the grasp of the average person. As such law enforcement agencies responded with building their own groups of personnel who had either self trained or had some interest in computers. Their efforts created the first group of digital forensics the International Association of Computer Investigative Specialists (IACIS). Mark Pollitt developed the first methodology of digital forensics which had 4 main phases, Acquisition, Identification, Evaluation and Admission. Most of the early digital forensics revolved around recovering data from drives, and little else.

After the 2001 Digital Research Workshops, a new modern framework was proposed by Brian Carrier and Eugene Spafford for Prudue University which involved 6 main phases:

- Identification
- Preservation
- Collection
- Examination
- Analysis
- Presentation

Their model was largely based on physical crime scene procedures, which had been developed and refined over many years.

## Identification

The identification phase is normally carried out as part of the physical crime scene. It involves detection and notification by the victim or a 3rd party and investigators are notified. In a business this might be an automated alert from an intrusion detection system.

During the identification phase the relevant authorization to conduct a forensic process would be sought. This could include a warrant from law enforcement or be as simple as an internal response team identifying the need to conduct an analysis of a digital event of concern.

If a criminal event has occurred and law enforcement are involved, then it is likely that any crime scene will be investigated physically. As digital devices are identified at a scene, then each of those devices are considered their own digital crime scene. A digital device may be considered part of a physical crime scene.

## Preservation

After a digital device has been identified as part or whole of a crime scene then as much of what its physical and digital state must be persevered, reducing the number of events that occur to it in order to not modify or destroy evidence. In a physical crime scene this would include such activities as taking photos, videos and limiting the access to the scene from bystanders. After the scene is secured then only investigators are allowed on the scene. At a digital crime scene, the equivalent of taking a photo is to image the system storage (hard drive, solid state drive) in an unpowered state. The reason for this is to create a copy which can be manipulated in a lab environment later without damaging, effecting and minimally interacting with the actual digital device. This is analogous to collecting a boot print in mud or fingerprints. The copy of the fingerprint is taken into evidence, not the whole wall that the finger print was found on. To prove that the system image has not been changed, the image could be hashed with MD5 or SHA-1.

Other steps to preserve the device might simply be to not turn the device on/off, or to not remove any removable media such as a USB or cables from a computer. Copies of critical log's could be made and the system could be imaged while still in a powered on state. Non-critical process could be ended in order to avoid any evidence being unintentionally deleted.

The other option for preserving data is to not intervene with the digital device. If it is in an electronically stable state, then nothing needs to be done to it in order to preserve the state of the device. It could be possible that the person who left the device may have left electronic "booby traps" for any would be detective in order to cover their tracks in case of investigation. Therefore doing nothing to the device might simply be the safest for both preservation of evidence and self.

It is arguable in a legal sense that this is the most important step in the process of digital forensics. Simply the act of interacting with the device may change its state in some unforeseeable way. Without being able to accurately measure or trace these effects leaves any evidence gathered onwards unreliable or admissible due to tampering. Once the scene has been preserved, there is potentially no end to how far an investigation could go into reconstructing the events that lead up to the inciting event.

## Collection

During collection, the goal is to gather as much information about the inciting event as possible in order to understand what has occurred. Searching for this information is a 4 phase process.

1. Target Definition
2. Data Extraction and Interpretation
3. Data Comparison
4. Knowledge update

### Target Definition

If it is clear to the investigators of what the target it, for example if a specific file has been targeted for attack, then it is easy to specifically look at that file and the changes that have been made to it in order to find out what may have occurred. For example if the file that has been changed is named "vulnerability.exe" then it is clear that that is the file that is the target.

### Data Extraction and Interpretation

Once the target has been identified, it needs to be understood what has happened to that target. Hopefully there would be backups of the target file, but if not it would be also hopeful that some data might be recoverable from the disk that might revel the changes/delta to the file/s that occurred through the digital event.

Of course, defining what it is you are looking for can be incredibly difficult if you do not know what you are looking for. Information like timestamps of when a file was changed may help, but this could have been modified and not accurate. If files are hidden or obfuscated then it might take a long time to find what it is that is needed.

After the initial target has been found, the rest of the information/data might become far easier to find. They might be in the same folder/file location or have some form of signature that is easily identifiable such as a file type, or network traffic type.

After an object is identified, it should be logged as evidence. This documentation must then be preserved for latter use either in a criminal court case or continued investigation. Once again, hashing the file is best practice to ensure that there are no changes to it.

## Examination

Once the file/s have been identified does not end the process. The investigator then needs to understand what has occurred to the system in chronological order to understand evidentially how the attack could have occurred. Hypothesis need to be drawn out of the data that is available in order to construct a motive and reason for the attack. The goal of this step is to understand what events occurred.

## Analysis

During analysis, the investigator will use the evidence that they have gathered and try to reconstruct the events that have occurred. In this phase of the investigation, it should be clear to the investigator what has happened and what parts of a system are effected. What is done is to clearly understand through testing of hypothesises is the sequence of events that occurred and why they occurred.

This then provides clear and evidence based tests that could withstand the cross examination of a legal council which in the case of digital forensics is likely what it may have to stand up to.

## Presentation

Once the digital crime scene has been understood it should then be presented as factually as possible. Weather this is needed in a written report or as a factual case of events would be dependent on the needs of the relevant stakeholders and their technical understanding of the situation. It could be that a more simplified non-technical language based presentation would be needed to help a Jury understand the digital crime scene better. What ever the case at this point, as long as the facts of the crime are well understood and there is a clear timeline, motive and understand of what has occurred, it is beyond the need to investigate further.

References

Carrier, B., & Spafford, E. (2004). An Event-Based Digital Forensic Investigation Framework. DFRWS. https://dfrws.org/presentation/an-event-based-digital-forensic-investigation-framework/

Tahiri, S. (2016, January 25). Digital Forensics Models. Infosec Resources. https://resources.infosecinstitute.com/digital-forensics-models/
