---
layout: post
title: "Lab 1: Social Engineering Reconnaissance"
date: 2020-07-20 12:57
author: Mark Christison
image: assets\images\socialE.jpg
tags: [ SEC602 ]
featured: false
hidden: true
---

**Hello, SEC601!**

1. Mitigate Risk
2. Protect Assets
3. Compliance

# Assets

**Tangible**
* Equipment
* Infastructure
* Data
* Employees
* Money
  
Intangible

* Market value
* Reputation

The CIA Triad
* Confidentiality
* Integrity
* Availability

Non-Repudiation
* The assurance that an entity cannot deny the validity of something
* The assurance the sender is th eone who claims to be the sender
* The assurance that the data transferred has not been modified in transit

# Security Governance

* Roles and responsibilities
* Policy
* Procedures
* Standards
* Controls
* Metrics

Security Components
* Risk
* Assets
* Vulnerabilities
* Threat
* Exploit
* Threat Actor
* Threat Vector
* Impact

1. Asset – People, property, and information.  People may include employees and customers along with other invited persons such as contractors or guests.  Property assets consist of both tangible and intangible items that can be assigned a value. The digital forms of data were residing here, most valuable as we are.

2. Vulnerability – A weakness in the IT infrastructure or its components that may be exploited by a threat to destroy, damage or compromise an asset. Loopholes or gaps in Application, Network or even in layouts.

3. Risk – The potential for loss, damage or destruction of an asset as a result of a threat exploiting a vulnerability.

4. Threat – Anything that can exploit a vulnerability, intentionally or accidentally, and obtain, damage, or destroy an asset.

5. Exploit –  breaking the vulnerability, attackers use the existing vulnerability for their convenient against the owner of the data.

6. Threat Actor/Threat Agent – who would want to exploit the assets of a company. Maybe an individual or    an organization for any specific causes.

7. Threat Vector/Attack Vector – It’s a path or means by which a hacker (or cracker) can gain access to a computer or network server in order to deliver a payload or malicious outcome. (Phishing/Malware/Drive-by-download/Domain shadowing).

8. Attack Surface – Connecting the multiple vulnerability dots by an attacker in a specific application or   network. Anyone trying to break into a system generally starts by scanning the target’s attack surface for possible attack vectors.

9. Likelihood – Possibilities of threat actor will carry out a threat.

10. Impact – the damage potential, the percentage of loss and the risk factor it made.

11. Control – minimize security risks or reducing the exposure of security risks.

12. Threat Profiling – Organizations can build with threat intel and various reports and see where they have risk factors based on new emerged threats and profile the threat groups details and coordinate with incident management teams to be precautions. Identifying vulnerable assets & quantifying risk factors of their own assets and map them with possible attack phases. [To understand, who are my threats?]

13. Threat Modelling – A process by which potential threats, such as structural vulnerabilities can be identified, enumerated, and prioritized – all from a hypothetical attacker’s point of view. Threat modeling answers questions like “Where are the high-value assets?”, “Where am I most vulnerable to attack?”,   “What are the most relevant threats?”, and “Is there an attack vector that might go unnoticed?”.    “What can go wrong?” [To understand, what are my threats?]

Covering the course outline intially. I have gone through and favouritied a bunch of material so that I have access to it throughout the semester.

We will be doing work on [Practice Labs](https://www.practice-labs.com/) throught out the course.

Matt ran through a slide show covering the broad concepts that we will be covering for next semster.

A large part of this course is rather new to me including a large amount of terms, terminilogy, and Acronyms. For this I will be 

# 2019 Baltimore ransomware attack

## Assets

* Assets
  
* Vulnerabilities
  
* Threat

* Exploit
  
* Threat Actor
  
* Threat Vector

Impact of the incident
Risks of post-incident attacks
Controls that can be put in place to mitigate risk

Update Policies and Training
Security Governance
LACK OF MONEY
