---
layout: post
title: "Understanding PKI Concepts"
date: 2020-08-28 12:00
author: Mark Christison
image: assets\images\keys.png
category: [SEC602]
featured: true
hidden: false
---

## Public Key Infrastructure

Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) is a systematic approch to information security. Instead of individual parties developing there own security measures to secure data and mitigate risks, PKI provides a simple yet very secure system for information security. It expands upon the concept called "the web of trust" which was coined by PGP inventor Phil Zimmerman. The Concept of the web of trust is that each user in the web acts a signatory for others that they trust. To send a message to a user that you don't know you need to traverse the web till you find the node of that user.

The downsides of the web of trust are that its decentralized approach makes it difficult to manage. Additionally, there is a high barrier of entry for new users and requires a high level of technical knowledge.

To overcome the shortfalls of the web of trust, central authorities have been established as the Infrastructure of the PKI model. These central authorities are known as Certificate Authorities. Instead of relying on peer to peer trust relationships, the PKI relies on the trust of the certificate authorities.

Certificate Authorities verify the identity of individuals or organizations and issue them certificates stating that they are who they say they are. The process is similar to that of gaining a passport which requires multiple forms of identification including a birth certificate and proof of address. Each additional document adds weight to the proof of who you say you are. Once verified, the issued passport acts as a validation of identity and in turn can become a validation document unto itself for 3rd parties. If the 3rd party trusts the passport issuer and validity of the passport then they should trust that you are who you say you are.

Similarly in the PKI model, different certificate authorities will issue certificates based on varying credentials such as ownership of a domain name, or physical proof of identity. If the Certificate Authority is satisfied that you are who you claim to be, then the CA will request your public key, encrypt their certificate with your public key and send you the encrypted message over a secure channel. You can then decrypt the message with your private key and use the certificate. When you need to validate your identity with others, you simply give them the digitally signed certificate and that user or organization can check the signature against the Certificate authority.

PKI works through a set of public and private key pairs. The public key can be made available for anyone to send information to a party through. The private key is used by that party to decrypt the message that is sent to them.

## What does it offer?

- Non-Repudiation
- Privacy
- Integrity
- Accountability
- Trust

## Uses of PKI

- Payment authentication
- Digital signatures of quotes or approvals
- PGP data communication
- Secure document storage
- Electronic contract execution
