---
layout: post
title: New Tutor
date: 2021-05-06 15:34
author: Mark Christison
image: assets\images\prince2.png
category: [SYD701]
featured: true
hidden: false
---

Beginning the semester agian is intersting now that Lars is no longer teaching the class. A new tutor will be taking the class for 4 weeks then we will have another new tutor again. We covered where we were at with all the assignments and did a bit of an overall understanding of what material had been covered in the classes. I raised the question about who would be marking assignments, and it seems for now that the new tutor Nick will be doing that for the time that he is here.

Assignment 2 is due in this weekend, and I am happy enough with where I am at with it. During the catch up of the class, Nick mentioned PRICE2 as a development methodology. That sounded familar, as I had read it in some of the documentation about the subject matter that I had chosen for assignment 2 but could not remember the specifics. When I went though my materials, I found the reference to it, where it stated that the methodology chosen for the systems devlopment was PRICE2. I had never heard of that as a systems development methodology up untill today so that may have saved me some marks in mentioning that as the chosen system development methodlogy in Assignment 2.

Nick mentioned that he will meet with Paul Devin to understand and scope assignment 3. I still do not quite understand what the IT system is that they are building, but I expect that Nick will be able to sort out the assignment requirements and provide a scoping to the assignment so that we can understand and work on.
